Add 4.4 proposal for Kubebuilder integration for Go operators (#2350)
operator-framework/operator-sdk: doc/proposals/openshift-4.4/kubebuilder-integration.md

SDK binary as the entrypoint, Kubebuilder should be extended with a CLI interface 
that supports registering plugins. This lets the SDK reuse Kubebuilder’s existing 
scaffolding code for Go operators, while still being able to extend the CLI for SDK 
specific features/sub-commands and provide custom plugins that will allow the SDK to 
scaffold different project types like Helm/Ansible in the future.

## Motivation

The Operator SDK and Kubebuilder largely provide the same experience for developing 
Go operators since both projects defer to APIs provided by the same upstream projects.
The two projects differentiate in their CLI and UX of project setup, layout, and 
lifecycle management. These differences are largely incidental of how the two 
projects developed over time and not due to any use cases that are only addressed by either UX. 

By adopting the same workflow and layout as Kubebuilder, the SDK gains better 
alignment with the upstream community for writing Go operators. This allows the 
SDK to be used interchangeably with Kubebuilder projects, which unifies the 
experience of writing Go operators and resolves confusion on why the Operator SDK 

> and Kubebuilder differ in their UX to achieve the same goals. This let’s the SDK 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and Kubebuilder differ in their UX to achieve the same goals. This lets the SDK 
```

focus more on features that are outside the scope of Kubebuilder, such as 
Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) integration and Scorecard.

Reusing the project scaffolding from Kubebuilder also reduces duplication in 
the SDK. This frees up Operator SDK maintainers to focus more on collaborating 
with the Kubebuilder maintainers on the upstream controller-runtime and controller-tools projects

## Goals

- Operator SDK projects should have the same project layout as Kubebuilder projects for Go operators
- The Operator SDK CLI and workflow for extending (adding APIs and webhooks) and managing the lifecycle (generate manifests, build and run) of a project should be the same as Kubebuilder

>   - This ensures the Operator SDK binary should be compatible for use on existing Kubebuilder projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - This ensures Operator SDK binary compatibility with existing Kubebuilder projects.
```

- Operator SDK specific features such as CSV generation, scorecard and test-framework should work the same in the new project layout.
- Operator SDK developers can use cert-manager to generate TLS certificates for their webhook servers

### Non-Goals

- Changing the SDK scaffolding and workflow for Helm and Ansible operators to align with Kubebuilder’s CLI
  - While Kubebuilder’s new plugin based CLI architecture should allow the SDK to extend it for scaffolding Helm/Ansible projects, the implementation of those plugins is not currently in scope for this proposal.
- Webhook support for Ansible/Helm based operators

## Proposal

### User Stories

> #### Story 1 - Design a Kubebuilder plugin interface that let’s the SDK reuse and extend the CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Story 1 - Design a Kubebuilder plugin interface that lets the SDK reuse and extend the CLI
```

After upstream discussions with the Kubebuilder maintainers there is consensus 
that Kubebuilder should support an interface to register plugins that would be 
used to provide the implementation of CLI commands. This way Kubebuilder would 

> not have to directly expose its cobra CLI for the SDK’s consumption, and the SDK 

Reviewer: Link cobra's repo.

subcommands (csv-gen, scorecard).

This plugin interface should also allow the SDK to provide custom plugin 
implementations for the init and create subcommands so that it can customize the 
scaffolding of Helm and Ansible projects in the future.

There is a [proposal][plugin-proposal] on Kubebuilder for the design of such a plugin interface. 
The aim of this story is to address all reviewer comments to achieve consensus 
on the plugin architecture and merge the proposal.

[plugin-proposal]: https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/pull/1250

#### Story 2 - Implement the Kubebuilder plugin interface and CLI pkg

After the plugin interface proposal has been accepted, the implementations of 
the plugin interface and the CLI pkg should be added to Kubebuilder.

This involves writing plugin implementations for the following scaffolding 
subcommands in Kubebuilder so that the SDK can register them for reuse in its own CLI:

- `kubebuilder init`
- `kubebuilder create api`
- `kubebuilder create webhook`

The goal of this story is to ensure a release of Kubebuilder that supports the 
new plugin interface that the SDK can integrate downstream into its own CLI.

> #### Story 3 - Integrate the Kubebuilder CLI with the SDK CLI to achieve the same workflow and project layout for Go operators

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Story 3 - Integrate the Kubebuilder CLI into the SDK CLI to achieve the same workflow and project layout for Go operators
```
Reduces ambiguity as to integration direction.

Go operators is identical to Kubebuilder’s workflow.

Project initialization and api/webhook scaffolding would be provided by the 
upstream Kubebuilder CLI and plugins:  

- `operator-sdk new` ==> `operator-sdk init`
- `operator-sdk add api/controller` ==> `operator-sdk create api`
- `operator-sdk create webhook`

Other SDK subcommands can be removed and replaced by their equivalent Makefile targets in the Kubebuilder workflow after ensuring that they fulfill all the same use cases.

- `operator-sdk generate k8s` ==> `make generate`
- `operator-sdk generate crd` ==> `make manifests`
- `operator-sdk build` ==> `make manager`, `make docker-build`
- `operator-sdk up local` ==> `make run`

If any of the old subcommands above are invoked for a Go operator project, the 
output should be a deprecation error that highlights the equivalent replacement 
for it in the new Kubebuilder workflow.

#### Story 4 - Update the SDK specific features and subcommands to work with the new project layout

Since features like the scorecard, CSV generation and test-framework have no 
equivalent in the Kubebuilder workflow, those subcommands would be unchanged on the CLI.

> - operator-sdk gen-csv

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `operator-sdk gen-csv`
```
For consistency.

> - operator-sdk scorecard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `operator-sdk scorecard`
```

> - operator-sdk test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `operator-sdk test`
```
